README.md, before:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/477206562.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/477206562)
[![CITATION.cff](https://github.com/hot-dogs/whots16-data-report/actions/workflows/cff-validator.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/hot-dogs/whots16-data-report/actions/workflows/cff-validator.yml)
#  Woods Hole - Hawaii Ocean Time-series Site 

[*Hydrographic observations at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Hawaii
Ocean Time-Series Site (WHOTS): 2019-2020, Data Report 16*](http://whots16-data-report.readthedocs.io/)

## Abstract

In 2003, [Robert Weller](https://www.whoi.edu/profile/rweller/) ([Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution [WHOI]](https://www.whoi.edu))
, [Albert Plueddemann](https://www.whoi.edu/profile/aplueddemann/) 
([WHOI](https://www.whoi.edu)), and
[Roger Lukas](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/oceanography/faculty/rlukas/)
([The University of Hawaii [UH]](https://manoa.hawaii.edu)) proposed to establish 
a [long-term surface mooring at the Hawaii Ocean Time-series (HOT)](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/)
[Station ALOHA (22°45’N, 158°W)](https://hahana.soest.hawaii.edu/stationaloha/)
to provide sustained, high-quality air-sea fluxes and the associated upper
ocean response as a coordinated part of the HOT program, and as an element of
the global array of ocean reference stations supported by the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Office of Climate Observation. 

The WHOTS-16 mooring was deployed on October 6, 2019, during an eight-day 
cruise ([WHOTS-16 cruise](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/wh16_dep.html)) 
and was recovered on August 28, 2021, during an eight-day cruise 
([WHOTS-17 cruise](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/wh17_dep.html)). 
The cruises were aboard the NOAA Oscar Sette. The seventeenth mooring was 
deployed on August 26, 2021, during the 
[WHOTS-17 cruise](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/wh17_dep.html) and was 
recovered on July 25, 2022. 

This report documents and describes the oceanographic observations made on the 
WHOTS-16 mooring for nearly one year and ten months and from shipboard measurements
during the two cruises when the mooring was deployed and recovered. 
[Sections II](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/2_section.html) 
and [III](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/3_section.html) 
include a detailed description of the cruises and the mooring, respectively. 
Sampling and processing procedures of the hydrographic casts, thermosalinograph, 
and shipboard ADCP data collected during these cruises are described in
[Section IV](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/4_section.html). 
[Section V](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/5_section.html) 
includes the processing procedures for the data collected by the moored 
instruments: SeaCATs, MicroCATs, Moored ADCPs and VMCM. Plots of the resulting 
data and preliminary analysis ar presented in [Section VI](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/6_section.html).

## Acknowledgements

- Many people participated in the WHOTS mooring deployment/recovery cruises 
See [Table 2.1](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/2_section.html#table-1)
and [Table 2.4](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/2_section.html#table-4)

- Thanks are due to all the personnel of the 
[Upper Ocean Processes Group (UOP)](http://uop.whoi.edu) at WHOI who prepared 
the WHOTS buoy’s instrumentation and mooring; 

- To [Kelsey Maloney](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kelsey-maloney-4a18291a4),
[Tully Rohrer](https://hahana.soest.hawaii.edu/hot/staff1.html), 
[Noah Howins](https://www.soest.hawaii.edu/oceanography/profile/Howins-Noah/), 
[Ryan Tabata](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ryan-tabata-69215486/), and 
[James Harris](https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-harris-661170174/) 
for their technical assistance with the moored and shipboard instrumentation; 

- We gratefully acknowledge the support from the colleagues at 
[Sea-Bird](https://www.seabird.com) to maintain the quality of the CTD data. 

- We would also like to thank the captains and crew of the 
[Ship Oscar Sette](https://www.omao.noaa.gov/learn/marine-operations/ships/oscar-elton-sette/about), 
and the [University of Hawaii (UH) Marine Center](https://www.soest.hawaii.edu/UMC/cms/) 
staff for their efforts. 

- This publication is based upon observations from the WHOI-Hawaii Ocean
Time-series Site (WHOTS) mooring, which is supported in part by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ([NOAA](https://www.noaa.gov/)) Global
Ocean Monitoring and Observing ([GOMO](https://globalocean.noaa.gov/)) Program
through the Cooperative Institute for the North Atlantic
Region ([CINAR](https://website.whoi.edu/cinar/)) under Cooperative Agreement
NA14OAR4320158. NOAA CPO FundRef number 100007298 to the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution, and by National Science Foundation grants
[OCE-0327513](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=0327513),
[OCE-0752606](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=0752606&HistoricalAwards=false)
,
[OCE-0926766](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=0926766&HistoricalAwards=false)
,
[OCE-1260164](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1260164&HistoricalAwards=false)
and
[OCE-1756517](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1756517&HistoricalAwards=false)
to the University of Hawaii for the Hawaii Ocean Time-series.

## How to Cite
 
- Bibtex:  
```bibtex
@techreport{Carvalho_Pacheco_Hydrographic_Observations_at_2022,
author = {Carvalho Pacheco, Fernando and Santiago-Mandujano, Fernando and Plueddemann, Albert J. and Weller, Robert A. and Potemra, James T. and Fitzgerald, Daniel and Galbraith, Nancy R.},
doi = {10.5281/zenodo.7259290},
institution = {School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology (SOEST), Department of Oceanography, University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa, Honolulu, HI},
title = {{Hydrographic Observations at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Hawaii Ocean Time-Series Site (WHOTS): 2019-2020, Data Report #16}},
url = {http://whots16-data-report.readthedocs.io/},
year = {2022}
}
```

## Get in Touch 
You can contact us by emailing <hotdata@hawaii.edu>

## References
[Check here](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/references.html)

Commit message:

added license badge + changed contact information

README.md, after:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/477206562.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/477206562)
[![CITATION.cff](https://github.com/hot-dogs/whots16-data-report/actions/workflows/cff-validator.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/hot-dogs/whots16-data-report/actions/workflows/cff-validator.yml)
[![License: CC BY 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC_BY_4.0-lightgrey.svg)]

#  Woods Hole - Hawaii Ocean Time-series Site 

[*Hydrographic observations at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Hawaii
Ocean Time-Series Site (WHOTS): 2019-2020, Data Report 16*](http://whots16-data-report.readthedocs.io/)

## Abstract

In 2003, [Robert Weller](https://www.whoi.edu/profile/rweller/) ([Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution [WHOI]](https://www.whoi.edu))
, [Albert Plueddemann](https://www.whoi.edu/profile/aplueddemann/) 
([WHOI](https://www.whoi.edu)), and
[Roger Lukas](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/oceanography/faculty/rlukas/)
([The University of Hawaii [UH]](https://manoa.hawaii.edu)) proposed to establish 
a [long-term surface mooring at the Hawaii Ocean Time-series (HOT)](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/)
[Station ALOHA (22°45’N, 158°W)](https://hahana.soest.hawaii.edu/stationaloha/)
to provide sustained, high-quality air-sea fluxes and the associated upper
ocean response as a coordinated part of the HOT program, and as an element of
the global array of ocean reference stations supported by the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Office of Climate Observation. 

The WHOTS-16 mooring was deployed on October 6, 2019, during an eight-day 
cruise ([WHOTS-16 cruise](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/wh16_dep.html)) 
and was recovered on August 28, 2021, during an eight-day cruise 
([WHOTS-17 cruise](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/wh17_dep.html)). 
The cruises were aboard the NOAA Oscar Sette. The seventeenth mooring was 
deployed on August 26, 2021, during the 
[WHOTS-17 cruise](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/whots/wh17_dep.html) and was 
recovered on July 25, 2022. 

This report documents and describes the oceanographic observations made on the 
WHOTS-16 mooring for nearly one year and ten months and from shipboard measurements
during the two cruises when the mooring was deployed and recovered. 
[Sections II](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/2_section.html) 
and [III](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/3_section.html) 
include a detailed description of the cruises and the mooring, respectively. 
Sampling and processing procedures of the hydrographic casts, thermosalinograph, 
and shipboard ADCP data collected during these cruises are described in
[Section IV](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/4_section.html). 
[Section V](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/5_section.html) 
includes the processing procedures for the data collected by the moored 
instruments: SeaCATs, MicroCATs, Moored ADCPs and VMCM. Plots of the resulting 
data and preliminary analysis ar presented in [Section VI](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/6_section.html).

## Acknowledgements

- Many people participated in the WHOTS mooring deployment/recovery cruises 
See [Table 2.1](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/2_section.html#table-1)
and [Table 2.4](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/2_section.html#table-4)

- Thanks are due to all the personnel of the 
[Upper Ocean Processes Group (UOP)](http://uop.whoi.edu) at WHOI who prepared 
the WHOTS buoy’s instrumentation and mooring; 

- To [Kelsey Maloney](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kelsey-maloney-4a18291a4),
[Tully Rohrer](https://hahana.soest.hawaii.edu/hot/staff1.html), 
[Noah Howins](https://www.soest.hawaii.edu/oceanography/profile/Howins-Noah/), 
[Ryan Tabata](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ryan-tabata-69215486/), and 
[James Harris](https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-harris-661170174/) 
for their technical assistance with the moored and shipboard instrumentation; 

- We gratefully acknowledge the support from the colleagues at 
[Sea-Bird](https://www.seabird.com) to maintain the quality of the CTD data. 

- We would also like to thank the captains and crew of the 
[Ship Oscar Sette](https://www.omao.noaa.gov/learn/marine-operations/ships/oscar-elton-sette/about), 
and the [University of Hawaii (UH) Marine Center](https://www.soest.hawaii.edu/UMC/cms/) 
staff for their efforts. 

- This publication is based upon observations from the WHOI-Hawaii Ocean
Time-series Site (WHOTS) mooring, which is supported in part by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ([NOAA](https://www.noaa.gov/)) Global
Ocean Monitoring and Observing ([GOMO](https://globalocean.noaa.gov/)) Program
through the Cooperative Institute for the North Atlantic
Region ([CINAR](https://website.whoi.edu/cinar/)) under Cooperative Agreement
NA14OAR4320158. NOAA CPO FundRef number 100007298 to the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution, and by National Science Foundation grants
[OCE-0327513](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=0327513),
[OCE-0752606](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=0752606&HistoricalAwards=false)
,
[OCE-0926766](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=0926766&HistoricalAwards=false)
,
[OCE-1260164](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1260164&HistoricalAwards=false)
and
[OCE-1756517](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1756517&HistoricalAwards=false)
to the University of Hawaii for the Hawaii Ocean Time-series.

## Citation
 
- Bibtex:  
```bibtex
@techreport{Carvalho_Pacheco_Hydrographic_Observations_at_2022,
author = {Carvalho Pacheco, Fernando and Santiago-Mandujano, Fernando and Plueddemann, Albert J. and Weller, Robert A. and Potemra, James T. and Fitzgerald, Daniel and Galbraith, Nancy R.},
doi = {10.5281/zenodo.7259290},
institution = {School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology (SOEST), Department of Oceanography, University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa, Honolulu, HI},
title = {{Hydrographic Observations at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Hawaii Ocean Time-Series Site (WHOTS): 2019-2020, Data Report #16}},
url = {http://whots16-data-report.readthedocs.io/},
year = {2022}
}
```

## Contact 
- You can contact us by emailing <hotdata@hawaii.edu>
- Or open a new issue [here](https://github.com/hot-dogs/whots16-data-report/issues)

## References
[Check here](https://whots-annual-report.readthedocs.io/projects/whots16-data-report/en/latest/references.html)
