# Introduction

In 2003, Robert Weller (Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution [WHOI]), Albert
Plueddemann (WHOI), and Roger Lukas (the University of Hawaii [UH]) proposed to
establish a long-term surface mooring at the Hawaii Ocean Time-series (HOT)
Station ALOHA (22°45'N, 158°W) to provide sustained, high-quality air-sea
fluxes and the associated upper ocean response as a coordinated part of the HOT
program, and as an element of the global array of ocean reference stations
supported by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA)
Office of Climate Observation.

With support from NOAA and the National Science Foundation (NSF), the WHOI HOT
Site (WHOTS) surface mooring has been maintained at Station ALOHA since August
2004. This project aims to provide long-term, high-quality air-sea fluxes as a
coordinated part of the HOT program and contribute to the goals of observing
heat, freshwater, and chemical fluxes at a site representative of the
oligotrophic North Pacific Ocean. The approach maintains a surface mooring
outfitted for meteorological and oceanographic measurements at a site near
Station ALOHA by successive mooring turnarounds. These observations are being
used to investigate air-sea interaction processes related to climate
variability and change.

The original mooring system is described in the mooring deployment/recovery
cruise reports {cite}`Plueddemann2006, Whelan2007`. Briefly, a Surlyn foam
surface buoy is equipped with meteorological instrumentation including two
complete Air-Sea Interaction Meteorological (ASIMET) systems
{cite}`Hosom1995, Colbo2009`, measuring air and sea surface temperatures,
relative humidity, barometric pressure, wind speed and direction, incoming
shortwave and longwave radiation, and precipitation. Complete surface
meteorological measurements are recorded every minute, as required to compute
air-sea fluxes of heat, freshwater, and momentum. Each ASIMET system also
transmits hourly averages of the surface meteorological variables via the Argos
satellite system and iridium. The mooring line is instrumented to collect time
series of upper ocean temperatures, salinities, and velocities with the surface
forcing record. This mooring includes conductivity, salinity and temperature
recorders, two Vector Measuring Current Meters (VMCMs), and two Acoustic
Doppler current profilers (ADCPs). See the WHOTS-16 mooring diagram in the
{numref}`diagram`.

The subsurface instrumentation is located vertically to resolve the temporal
variations of shear and stratification in the upper pycnocline to support the
study of mixed layer entrainment. Experience with moored profiler measurements
near Hawaii suggests that Richardson's number estimates over 10 m scales are
adequate. Salinity is crucial to water mass stratification, as salt-stratified
barrier layers are observed at HOT and in the region {cite}`Kara2000`. Thus
Sea-Bird MicroCATs with vertical separation ranging from 5-20 m were used to
measure temperature and salinity. A Teledyne RD Instruments (TRDI) ADCP obtains
current profiles across the entrainment zone and another in the mixed layer.
Both ADCPs are in an upward-looking configuration, one is at 125 m, using 4 m
bins, and the other is at 47.5 m using 2 m bins. To provide near-surface
velocity (where the ADCP estimates are less reliable), we deploy two VMCMs. The
simple mooring design is a balance between resolving extremes versus the
typical annual cycling of the mixed layer
{cite}`Plueddemann2006, Santiago-Mandujano2007`.

```{figure} /figures/diagram/whots16-diagram.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: diagram

WHOTS-16 mooring design
```

The sixteenth WHOTS mooring was deployed on October 6, 2019, during an
eight-day cruise (WHOTS-16 cruise) and was recovered on August 28, 2021,
during an eight-day cruise (WHOTS-17 cruise). The cruises were aboard the NOAA
Oscar Sette. The seventeenth mooring was deployed on August 26, 2021, during 
the WHOTS-17 cruise and was recovered on July 25, 2022. 

This report documents and describes the oceanographic observations made on the
WHOTS-16 mooring for nearly one year and ten months and from shipboard
measurements during the two cruises when the mooring was deployed and
recovered. Sections
{ref}`II</2_section.md#description-of-the-whots-16-mooring-cruises>` and
{ref}`III</3_section.md#description-of-whots-16-mooring>` include a detailed
description of the cruises and the mooring, respectively. Sampling and
processing procedures of the hydrographic casts, thermosalinograph, and
shipboard ADCP data collected during these cruises are described in Section 
{ref}`IV</4_section.md#whots-16-17-cruise-shipboard-observations>`.
Section {ref}`V</5_section.md#moored-instrument-observations>` includes the 
processing procedures for the data collected by the moored instruments:
{ref}`SeaCATs, MicroCATs</5_section.md#microcat-data-processing-procedures>`, 
{ref}`Moored ADCPs</5_section.md#acoustic-doppler-current-profiler>` and 
{ref}`VMCM</5_section.md#vector-measuring-current-meter-vmcm>`. 
Plots of the resulting data and preliminary analysis are presented in 
Section VI.
