docs/source/6_section.md, before:

# Results

````{admonition} OLD TEXT!
:class: warning
During the WHOTS-15 cruise (WHOTS-15 mooring deployment, September 21-29, 2018)
, weather conditions on September 22-23 were favorable, with light
east-southeast winds of about 5 kt increasing to up to 16 kt by the end of the
deployment, and 1.5m waves from the east, with a strong surface current toward
the east-northeast.

CTD casts conducted near the mooring site (Station 50 – Near the WHOTS-15 buoy)
after the deployment (Figure VI 1 through Figure VI 4) displayed a subsurface
salinity maximum at 150 dbar and a mixed layer nearly 50 m deep. Near-surface
currents were about 1 kt North-eastward during transit to Station ALOHA,
turning Northward and Eastward upon arrival to Station ALOHA, and remained so
for approximately five days. There was a nearly stationary cyclonic eddy east
of ALOHA, suggesting a possible increasing geostrophic flow towards the East,
North-East. A combination of internal semidiurnal and diurnal tides and
near-inertial oscillations was noticeable, especially in vertical shear.

During the WHOTS-16 cruise (WHOTS-15 mooring recovery, October 4-12, 2019), a
weakening front north of the Hawaiian Islands acted to weaken trades across the
region. This ridge to the north was eroding due to a weakening cold front north
of the ridge, which led to a downward trend in winds. The front continued to
weaken and sink southward through the weekend, keeping the winds light and
variable. Regular trades returned by mid-week. There was no measurable
precipitation during the deployment or recovery times of the WHOTS-16 and -15
moorings, respectively. On Thursday, October 10th, winds in the morning
increased to 25 kt gusting to 35 kt, and there was a brief rain event in the
morning. Distant lightning caused a short delay (30 minutes) to the first CTD
yo-yo cast. Waves during the week were also low, with a small swell from the
north arriving mid-week.

Conditions during the WHOTS-16 deployment on October 5th were favorable, with
light NNE winds of ~ 5 kt increasing to up to 10 kt by the end of the
deployment. There were clear skies and no precipitation in the region, and 1.0
to 1.5 m waves from the east, with a strong surface current towards ENE.

CTD casts conducted near the mooring site (Station 50) before the recovery (
Figure VI 7 through Figure VI 9)displayed a subsurface salinity maximum at 70
dbar and a mixed layer nearly 60 dbar deep. Near-surface currents were almost 1
kt northward during transit to Station ALOHA, turning southward upon arrival to
Station ALOHA. Eventually, the current shifted due north again, became somewhat
weaker (about 0.5 kt), and remained for approximately five days. There was a
nearly low sea level just to the east of Station ALOHA, not quite a fully
formed eddy; it was reflected by northward flow to the east and southward flow
to the west. A combination of internal semidiurnal and diurnal tides and
near-inertial oscillations was noticeable, especially in vertical shear.

The temperature MicroCAT records during the WHOTS-15 deployment (Figure VI 16
through Figure VI 20) show noticeable seasonal variability in the upper 100 m
and a sudden increase during January 2019. A decrease in June 2019 was evident
in the instruments below 55 m. The salinity records (Figure VI 21 through
Figure VI 25 do not show an apparent seasonal cycle, but instances of salinity
decrease were recorded during March, especially in July-August 2019, and to a
minor extent in May 2019 by the instruments located above 120 m.

Figure VI 31 and Figure VI 32 show contours of the WHOTS-15 MicroCAT data in
context with data from the previous 14 deployments. The seasonal cycle is
evident in the temperature record, with record temperatures (higher than 26 °C)
in the summer of 2004, and again in 2014, 2015, 2017, and 2019. Salinities in
the subsurface salinity maximum were relatively low during the first 6 years of
the record, only to increase drastically after 2008 through 2015, with some
lower salinity episodes in mid-2011 and early 2012. The salinity maximum
extended to near the surface in early 2010, 2011, late 2012-early 2013, and
February-March 2013. Salinities in the salinity minimum decreased after 2015,
showing low salinities above 100 m in 2016, 2017, 2018, and reaching record low
values (34.4) in July-August 2019. The low salinities observed in 2019 in the
MicroCAT time-series plots (Figure VI 21 through Figure VI 25) are apparent in
Figure VI-32 and Figure VI-33. When plotted in σθ coordinates (Figure VI-33),
the salinity maximum seems to be centered roughly between 24 and 24.5 σθ.

Records from the WHOTS-15 MicroCATs (Figure VI 33) deployed near the bottom of
the mooring (4658 m) detected temperature and salinity changes related to
episodic ‘cold events’ apparently caused by bottom water moving between abyssal
basins (Lukas et al., 2001). These events are being monitored by instruments at
the ALOHA Cabled Observatory (ACO, Howe et al., 2011), a deep water observatory
located at the bottom of Station ALOHA (about 6 nautical miles west from the
WHOTS-15 anchor), since June 2011. Figure VI 33 shows temperature and salinity
records from the WHOTS-15 MicroCATs superimposed on the ACO data. The MicroCAT
data agreed with the temperature decrease and the salinity variability
registered by ACO instruments during two cold events in December 2018 and June
2019, and a minor event in September 2019.

Figure VI 37 through Figure VI 39 shows the time series of the zonal,
meridional, and vertical currents recorded with the moored ADCPs during the
WHOTS-15 deployment. Figure VI 34, through Figure VI 36, shows the ADCP current
components' contours in context with data from the previous deployments.
Despite the gaps in the data, an apparent variability is seen in the zonal and
meridional currents, apparently caused by passing eddies. There have been
periods of intermittent positive or negative zonal currents on top of this
variability, for instance, during 2007-2008. The contours of the vertical
current component (Figure VI 36) show a transition in the magnitude of the
contours near 47 m, indicating that the 300 kHz ADCP located at 126 m moves
more vertically than the 600 kHz ADCP located at 47.5 m.

A comparison between the moored ADCP data and the shipboard ADCP data obtained
during the WHOTS-15 cruise is shown in Figure VI 40, Figure VI 41, and a
similar comparison during the WHOTS-16 cruise is shown in Figure VI 42 and
Figure VI 43. Some of the differences were seen, especially in the zonal
component, maybe due to the mooring motion, which was not removed from the
data. Comparisons between the available shipboard ADCP from HOT-306 to -315
cruises and the mooring data are shown in Figure VI 44 and Figure VI 45.

The Xeos-GPS receiver registered the WHOTS-15 buoy motion, and its positions
are plotted in Figure VI 47. The buoy was located west of the anchor for most
of the deployment, except from around April to June 2019, when it was east. The
power spectrum of these data (Figure VI 48) shows extra energy at the inertial
period (~31 hr). Combining the buoy motion with the tilt (a combination of
pitch and roll) from the ADCP data (Figure VI 49) showed that the tilt
increased as the buoy distance from the anchor WHOTS-15 increased. This was
expected since the inclination of the cable increases as the buoy moves away
from the anchor.

````

## CTD Profiling Data

````{admonition} OLD TEXT!
:class: warning
Profiles of temperature, salinity, and potential density (σθ) from the casts
obtained during the WHOTS-15 deployment cruise are presented in Figure VI 1
through Figure VI 6, together with the results of bottle determination of
salinity. Figure VI 7 through Figure VI 9 shows the results of the CTD profiles
during the WHOTS-16 cruise.
````

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s20c1_s50c1.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.1

[Upper left panel] Profiles of CTD temperature, salinity, and potential
density (σθ) as a function of pressure, including discrete bottle salinity
samples (when available) for station 20 cast 1 during the WHOTS-16
cruise. [Upper right panel] Profiles of CTD salinity as a function of potential
temperature, including discrete bottle salinity samples (when available) for
station 20 cast 1 during the WHOTS-15 cruise. [Lower left panel] Same as in the
upper left panel, but for station 50 cast 1. [Lower right panel] Same as in the
upper right panel, but station 50 cast 1.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s50c2_s50c3.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.2

[Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 50, cast
2. [Lower panels] Same as Figure VI 1, but for station 50, cast 3.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s50c4_s50c5.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.3

[Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 50, cast
4. [Lower panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 50 cast 5.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s52c1_s52c2.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.4

[Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 1. [Lower 
panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 2.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s52c3_s52c4.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.5

Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 4.[Lower 
panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 5.
```


```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s2c1_s20c1.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.6

[Upper left panel] Profiles of CTD temperature, salinity, and potential
density (σθ) as a function of pressure, including discrete bottle salinity
samples (when available) for station 2 cast 1 during the WHOTS-17
cruise. [Upper right panel] Profiles of CTD salinity as a function of potential
temperature, including discrete bottle salinity samples (when available) for
station 2 cast 1 during the WHOTS-17 cruise. [Lower left panel] Same as in the
upper left panel, but for station 20 cast 1. [Lower right panel] Same as in the
upper right panel, but station 20 cast 1.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s50c1_s50c2.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.7

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast
1.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast 2.
```


```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s50c3_s50c4.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.8

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast
3.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast 4.
```


```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s50c5_s50c6.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.9

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast
5.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast 6.
```


```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s52c1_s52c2.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.10

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 52, cast
1.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 52, cast 2.
```


## Thermosalinograph Data

````{admonition} OLD TEXT!
:class: warning
Underway measurements of near-surface temperature and salinity from the
thermosalinograph (TSG) system onboard the R/V Hi’ialakai cruise are presented
in Figure VI 12 and navigational data is shown in Figure VI 13 for the WHOTS-15
cruise. TSG and navigational data during the WHOTS-16 cruise, onboard the R/V
Oscar Sette, are presented in Figure VI 14 and Figure VI 15, respectively. The
WHOTS-16 underway seawater system that feeds the TSG failed on October 11th,
2019, due to air going into the plumbing, causing the pumps to stop working
during deteriorated weather conditions.
````

```{figure} figures/thermosal/ac38thsl_final.*
:height: 600px
:align: center
:name: figure6.6

Final processed temperature (upper panel), salinity (middle panel), and
potential density (σθ) (lower panel) data from the continuous underway system
onboard the R/V Hi’ialakai during the WHOTS-15 cruise. Temperature and salinity
taken from 6-dbar CTD data (circles) and salinity bottle sample data (crosses)
are superimposed. The dashed vertical red line indicates the period of
occupation of Station ALOHA and the WHOTS site.
```




## MicoCAT Data

## Moored ADCP Data

## Moored and Shipboard ADCP comparisons

## Next Generation Vector Measuring Current Meter Data (VMCM)

## GPS Data

## Mooring Motion

Commit message:

updated thermosal plot text with old figures - testing png on html and pdf output

docs/source/6_section.md, after:

# Results

````{admonition} OLD TEXT!
:class: warning
During the WHOTS-15 cruise (WHOTS-15 mooring deployment, September 21-29, 2018)
, weather conditions on September 22-23 were favorable, with light
east-southeast winds of about 5 kt increasing to up to 16 kt by the end of the
deployment, and 1.5m waves from the east, with a strong surface current toward
the east-northeast.

CTD casts conducted near the mooring site (Station 50 – Near the WHOTS-15 buoy)
after the deployment (Figure VI 1 through Figure VI 4) displayed a subsurface
salinity maximum at 150 dbar and a mixed layer nearly 50 m deep. Near-surface
currents were about 1 kt North-eastward during transit to Station ALOHA,
turning Northward and Eastward upon arrival to Station ALOHA, and remained so
for approximately five days. There was a nearly stationary cyclonic eddy east
of ALOHA, suggesting a possible increasing geostrophic flow towards the East,
North-East. A combination of internal semidiurnal and diurnal tides and
near-inertial oscillations was noticeable, especially in vertical shear.

During the WHOTS-16 cruise (WHOTS-15 mooring recovery, October 4-12, 2019), a
weakening front north of the Hawaiian Islands acted to weaken trades across the
region. This ridge to the north was eroding due to a weakening cold front north
of the ridge, which led to a downward trend in winds. The front continued to
weaken and sink southward through the weekend, keeping the winds light and
variable. Regular trades returned by mid-week. There was no measurable
precipitation during the deployment or recovery times of the WHOTS-16 and -15
moorings, respectively. On Thursday, October 10th, winds in the morning
increased to 25 kt gusting to 35 kt, and there was a brief rain event in the
morning. Distant lightning caused a short delay (30 minutes) to the first CTD
yo-yo cast. Waves during the week were also low, with a small swell from the
north arriving mid-week.

Conditions during the WHOTS-16 deployment on October 5th were favorable, with
light NNE winds of ~ 5 kt increasing to up to 10 kt by the end of the
deployment. There were clear skies and no precipitation in the region, and 1.0
to 1.5 m waves from the east, with a strong surface current towards ENE.

CTD casts conducted near the mooring site (Station 50) before the recovery (
Figure VI 7 through Figure VI 9)displayed a subsurface salinity maximum at 70
dbar and a mixed layer nearly 60 dbar deep. Near-surface currents were almost 1
kt northward during transit to Station ALOHA, turning southward upon arrival to
Station ALOHA. Eventually, the current shifted due north again, became somewhat
weaker (about 0.5 kt), and remained for approximately five days. There was a
nearly low sea level just to the east of Station ALOHA, not quite a fully
formed eddy; it was reflected by northward flow to the east and southward flow
to the west. A combination of internal semidiurnal and diurnal tides and
near-inertial oscillations was noticeable, especially in vertical shear.

The temperature MicroCAT records during the WHOTS-15 deployment (Figure VI 16
through Figure VI 20) show noticeable seasonal variability in the upper 100 m
and a sudden increase during January 2019. A decrease in June 2019 was evident
in the instruments below 55 m. The salinity records (Figure VI 21 through
Figure VI 25 do not show an apparent seasonal cycle, but instances of salinity
decrease were recorded during March, especially in July-August 2019, and to a
minor extent in May 2019 by the instruments located above 120 m.

Figure VI 31 and Figure VI 32 show contours of the WHOTS-15 MicroCAT data in
context with data from the previous 14 deployments. The seasonal cycle is
evident in the temperature record, with record temperatures (higher than 26 °C)
in the summer of 2004, and again in 2014, 2015, 2017, and 2019. Salinities in
the subsurface salinity maximum were relatively low during the first 6 years of
the record, only to increase drastically after 2008 through 2015, with some
lower salinity episodes in mid-2011 and early 2012. The salinity maximum
extended to near the surface in early 2010, 2011, late 2012-early 2013, and
February-March 2013. Salinities in the salinity minimum decreased after 2015,
showing low salinities above 100 m in 2016, 2017, 2018, and reaching record low
values (34.4) in July-August 2019. The low salinities observed in 2019 in the
MicroCAT time-series plots (Figure VI 21 through Figure VI 25) are apparent in
Figure VI-32 and Figure VI-33. When plotted in σθ coordinates (Figure VI-33),
the salinity maximum seems to be centered roughly between 24 and 24.5 σθ.

Records from the WHOTS-15 MicroCATs (Figure VI 33) deployed near the bottom of
the mooring (4658 m) detected temperature and salinity changes related to
episodic ‘cold events’ apparently caused by bottom water moving between abyssal
basins (Lukas et al., 2001). These events are being monitored by instruments at
the ALOHA Cabled Observatory (ACO, Howe et al., 2011), a deep water observatory
located at the bottom of Station ALOHA (about 6 nautical miles west from the
WHOTS-15 anchor), since June 2011. Figure VI 33 shows temperature and salinity
records from the WHOTS-15 MicroCATs superimposed on the ACO data. The MicroCAT
data agreed with the temperature decrease and the salinity variability
registered by ACO instruments during two cold events in December 2018 and June
2019, and a minor event in September 2019.

Figure VI 37 through Figure VI 39 shows the time series of the zonal,
meridional, and vertical currents recorded with the moored ADCPs during the
WHOTS-15 deployment. Figure VI 34, through Figure VI 36, shows the ADCP current
components' contours in context with data from the previous deployments.
Despite the gaps in the data, an apparent variability is seen in the zonal and
meridional currents, apparently caused by passing eddies. There have been
periods of intermittent positive or negative zonal currents on top of this
variability, for instance, during 2007-2008. The contours of the vertical
current component (Figure VI 36) show a transition in the magnitude of the
contours near 47 m, indicating that the 300 kHz ADCP located at 126 m moves
more vertically than the 600 kHz ADCP located at 47.5 m.

A comparison between the moored ADCP data and the shipboard ADCP data obtained
during the WHOTS-15 cruise is shown in Figure VI 40, Figure VI 41, and a
similar comparison during the WHOTS-16 cruise is shown in Figure VI 42 and
Figure VI 43. Some of the differences were seen, especially in the zonal
component, maybe due to the mooring motion, which was not removed from the
data. Comparisons between the available shipboard ADCP from HOT-306 to -315
cruises and the mooring data are shown in Figure VI 44 and Figure VI 45.

The Xeos-GPS receiver registered the WHOTS-15 buoy motion, and its positions
are plotted in Figure VI 47. The buoy was located west of the anchor for most
of the deployment, except from around April to June 2019, when it was east. The
power spectrum of these data (Figure VI 48) shows extra energy at the inertial
period (~31 hr). Combining the buoy motion with the tilt (a combination of
pitch and roll) from the ADCP data (Figure VI 49) showed that the tilt
increased as the buoy distance from the anchor WHOTS-15 increased. This was
expected since the inclination of the cable increases as the buoy moves away
from the anchor.

````

## CTD Profiling Data

````{admonition} OLD TEXT!
:class: warning
Profiles of temperature, salinity, and potential density (σθ) from the casts
obtained during the WHOTS-15 deployment cruise are presented in Figure VI 1
through Figure VI 6, together with the results of bottle determination of
salinity. Figure VI 7 through Figure VI 9 shows the results of the CTD profiles
during the WHOTS-16 cruise.
````

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s20c1_s50c1.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.1

[Upper left panel] Profiles of CTD temperature, salinity, and potential
density (σθ) as a function of pressure, including discrete bottle salinity
samples (when available) for station 20 cast 1 during the WHOTS-16
cruise. [Upper right panel] Profiles of CTD salinity as a function of potential
temperature, including discrete bottle salinity samples (when available) for
station 20 cast 1 during the WHOTS-15 cruise. [Lower left panel] Same as in the
upper left panel, but for station 50 cast 1. [Lower right panel] Same as in the
upper right panel, but station 50 cast 1.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s50c2_s50c3.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.2

[Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 50, cast
2. [Lower panels] Same as Figure VI 1, but for station 50, cast 3.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s50c4_s50c5.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.3

[Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 50, cast
4. [Lower panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 50 cast 5.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s52c1_s52c2.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.4

[Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 1. [Lower 
panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 2.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/1.whots_16/s52c3_s52c4.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.5

Upper panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 4.[Lower 
panels] Same as in Figure VI 1, but for station 52, cast 5.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s2c1_s20c1.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.6

[Upper left panel] Profiles of CTD temperature, salinity, and potential
density (σθ) as a function of pressure, including discrete bottle salinity
samples (when available) for station 2 cast 1 during the WHOTS-17
cruise. [Upper right panel] Profiles of CTD salinity as a function of potential
temperature, including discrete bottle salinity samples (when available) for
station 2 cast 1 during the WHOTS-17 cruise. [Lower left panel] Same as in the
upper left panel, but for station 20 cast 1. [Lower right panel] Same as in the
upper right panel, but station 20 cast 1.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s50c1_s50c2.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.7

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast
1.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast 2.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s50c3_s50c4.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.8

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast
3.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast 4.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s50c5_s50c6.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.9

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast
5.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 50, cast 6.
```

```{figure} figures/ctd/2.whots_17/s52c1_s52c2.png
:height: 1000px
:align: center
:name: figure6.10

Upper panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 52, cast
1.[Lower panels] Same as in Figure 6.6, but for station 52, cast 2.
```

## Thermosalinograph Data

````{admonition} OLD TEXT!
:class: warning
Underway measurements of near-surface temperature and salinity from the
thermosalinograph (TSG) system onboard the R/V Hi’ialakai cruise are presented
in Figure VI 12 and navigational data is shown in Figure VI 13 for the WHOTS-15
cruise. TSG and navigational data during the WHOTS-16 cruise, onboard the R/V
Oscar Sette, are presented in Figure VI 14 and Figure VI 15, respectively. The
WHOTS-16 underway seawater system that feeds the TSG failed on October 11th,
2019, due to air going into the plumbing, causing the pumps to stop working
during deteriorated weather conditions.
````

```{figure} figures/thermosal/ac38thsl_final.*
:height: 600px
:align: center
:name: figure6.11

Final processed temperature (upper panel), salinity (middle panel), and
potential density (σθ) (lower panel) data from the continuous underway system
onboard the R/V Hi’ialakai during the WHOTS-15 cruise. Temperature and salinity
taken from 6-dbar CTD data (circles) and salinity bottle sample data (crosses)
are superimposed. The dashed vertical red line indicates the period of
occupation of Station ALOHA and the WHOTS site.
```

```{figure} figures/thermosal/ac38nav_final.*
:height: 600px
:align: center
:name: figure6.12

Timeseries of latitude (upper panel), longitude (middle panel), and ship’s
speed (lower panel) during the WHOTS-15 cruise.
```

```{figure} figures/thermosal/ac39thsl_final1.png
:height: 600px
:align: center
:name: figure6.13

Final processed temperature (upper panel), salinity (middle panel), and
potential density (σθ) (lower panel) data from the continuous underway system
onboard the R/V Oscar Sette during the WHOTS-16 cruise. Temperature and
salinity were taken from 6-dbar CTD data (circles), and salinity bottle sample
data (crosses) are superimposed. The dashed vertical red line indicates the
period of occupation of Station ALOHA and the WHOTS site.
```

```{figure} figures/thermosal/ac39nav_final.png
:height: 600px
:align: center
:name: figure6.12

Timeseries of latitude (upper panel), longitude (middle panel), and ship’s
speed (lower panel) during the WHOTS-15 cruise.
```

## MicoCAT Data

## Moored ADCP Data

## Moored and Shipboard ADCP comparisons

## Next Generation Vector Measuring Current Meter Data (VMCM)

## GPS Data

## Mooring Motion
